well howdy there they don't have people
it's Bo again so today we're going to
talk about Juneteenth this is going to
be part of an ongoing series discussing
historical events that either aren't in
history books at all or they don't get
the exposure they should and I mean we
all know why Juneteenth is in the news
today because the President of the
United States has chosen this date to
hold a rally in Tulsa which is either
incredibly tone-deaf or he completely
understands the message he's sending and
it's just for a few people either way
that's not what we're here to talk about
we are here to talk about what
Juneteenth is how it happened and we're
gonna spell a couple of myths that kind
of grew out of it or are still being
still being circulated this truth maybe
they shouldn't be okay so January 1st
1863 the Emancipation Proclamation right
Lincoln did it freed the slaves so
everywhere the slaves are free no of
course not
news took time to travel it's not like
he could send a max text or email or
anything like that even if he did in
Galveston the city we're going to be
talking about they wouldn't had time to
read it because they were busy fighting
the Battle of Galveston it wasn't until
June 19 1865 two and a half years later
the federal troops showed up and
enforced it two and a half years two and
a half years that's a long time now
there's a bunch of reasons a bunch of
theories as to why it took so long for
news to reach Galveston one of them is
that while they sent a messenger but
they were shot another is that the Union
really didn't want that because they
needed you know one more good harvest a
whole bunch of theories involving it
we're not going to go through all of
them because they're all based on a
false premise
that where we're going to get to in a
minute once the federal troops began
enforcement it altered the owner slave
relationship and turned it into employer
employee relationship and well this
gives birth to another myth freedom is
scary
freedom is scary especially if you've
never experienced it before so some of
the former slaves chose to stay where
they were and continue working where
they were this gave rise to the idea
that well you know my ancestors well
they were good to their slaves so much
so that even after slavery was over they
stayed no that's not what happened they
didn't have means they didn't know where
to go
they chose the devil they knew nobody
was good to their slaves that wasn't the
thing yeah sure maybe they were less
evil than their neighbor but being less
evil than the institution of slavery
inside the United States that's not
saying much that is not something to
brag about or try to whitewash your
ancestors actions yeah nobody was good
to their slaves if they were they would
free them and that brings us to the next
thing those theories why it took so long
the theories don't matter none of them
do none of them because the reality is
they did no news did reach there
Galveston was a pretty big port it
rivaled New Orleans it had a cathedral a
Roman Catholic cathedral functionaries
traveling in and out it had like a dozen
newspapers you mean to tell me in two
and a half years nobody traveling
through
they're mentioned the end of slavery
that seems like it if it would probably
come up seems like pretty big news all
of these theories are just serving to
lessen the culpability of those who
tried to ignore it who ignored that
Proclamation
who chose to stay with the status quo
even though they knew things were
changing they could see it on the
horizon yeah maybe they weren't being
forced to do it yet but they knew it was
coming
they knew what had happened but they
chose to maintain the status quo
Juneteenth got celebrated and it
continued to be celebrated it kind of
fell out of favor during the Great
Depression then during the civil rights
movement it's all resurgence and it's
still it's becoming more and more widely
celebrated today it's become a symbol of
those first scary steps into freedom I
actually think in Texas it's a holiday
but one of the most important lessons
from Juneteenth and one of the biggest
things to be learned it's it's not for
the people who celebrate it it's it's
for the people who are choosing to
ignore what's on the horizon choosing to
ignore the signs that things need to
change
choosing to stay silent and maintain the
status quo right now white folk can
learn a whole lot more from the events
surrounding Juneteenth than black people
can anyway it's just a fault y'all have
a good day